module2 translated (#43)
coders-school/multithreading: module2/03_passing_arguments.en.md

___

## Task 1 - solution

```cpp
#include <thread>
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int add(int a, int b)
{
    return a + b;
}

int main()
{
    thread t(add, 5, 6);
    t.join();
    return 0;
}
```

* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> How to pass the result of a calculation back to <code>main()</code> function?
  * <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> You can't do it through <code>return</code>, threads don't do that
  * <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> You can write something in a global variable, but it's asking for trouble - synchronization
  * <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> The correct way is to pass a reference to the variable that we will modify in the thread as a parameter

___

## Exercise 2: passing references

```cpp
#include <thread>
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void add10(int & a)
{
    a += 10;
}

int main()
{
    // run add10 function in a thread
    // pass 5 as an argument and read it's value
    return 0;
}
```

* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Create a thread and run <code>add10()</code> function on it, passing the number 5 to it

> * <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Write the result on the screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Display the result on the screen in main thread
```

___

## Task 3 - solution

* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Why there is no <code>std::ref()</code> next to "Corolla" parameter?
  * <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> temporary objects can be attached to <code>const &</code>
  * <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> using <code>std::ref("Corolla")</code> will give us a reference to a temporary variable (in this case it's safe)
  * <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> there is a danger of passing a dangling reference

___

## Passing parameters

* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> The constructor of the thread as the first parameter gets any callable object - lambda, function, functor. Callable is copied into thread memory.
* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Successive parameters of the thread's constructor are passed to the function (lambdas)
* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Parameters are forwarded (copied or moved) to thread memory.
* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Passing a reference is done by using <code>std::ref()</code>
* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Passing a constant reference is done by using <code>std::cref()</code>

> * <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> A class method that starts in a thread as the first parameter takes hidden pointer to the object on which it is to be called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> A class method that is called in a thread takes hidden pointer to the object on which it is to be called as the first parameter.
```
